# Monday October 20, 2025

Hey there. It's Monday and that means hmmmm on the NQ. Even with earnings week oozing our way, Mondays are a tricky trading day. A lot of the time it's because things on Monday tend to fall. Like a lot. Not always but often.

Wait, there's more...

Being a believer in up, up, and away, there's many trades like BUY ones that can snag you some decent quick gains. But they tend to be short so get in and then get out fast. Take the money. 

A wise person told me years ago that Mondays, Tuesdays, and Wednesdays can be tough. Thursdays and Fridays tend to deliver big moves. But with earnings week(s), a lot of that can be tossed out with the Wednesday curbside garbage. So do you plan for these types of traditional slug feasts? Nope. 

So much of my trading on the NQ (cash and replay) are based on the retail trading market combined wih those massive hedge funds and instutional taders. 

Right now at 5:56am EST I am up +19.25 on the MESZ5. Hmmmm, huh? 

* M is for mini. 
* ES is the S&P 500. 
* Z is the contract expiration date which is December. 5 is the year. 

I'm in on my demo module now waiting for cash to hit my account. Demo lets you trade in simulation and adjust your balance once per hour. So demo is like replay but it's ongoing. So whatever I traded today in money carries over to tomorrow. Well, and tonight. It's the closest thing to trading in your cash account. 

For a long time I didn't use demo. Instead, I used the Replay module. My thinking was (and still is) the better I get at practicing trading specific times of a specific day, the better I can learn the price action patterns. Then see if I can 2X, 3X, 4X, and even on some silly sessions, 10X my $800 cash account. 

Forget about the hype of 2X or any X-ing your account. It can get addictive and boring. When it starts to get boring, it's time to transfer some green into your cash account. Go small in the beginning. Maybe like $300. Then trade the MES (mini S&P 500 = ES). Then dabble trading 1 contract after you have a few solid months (like 500 hours) of time in the seat practicing your trading. Try to not lose your money. Sounds dumb, I know. But it's a pretty cool feeling to see yourself making some money trading futures. It's awesome. But don't let yourself get too cofident. Often, and I do mean like all the time, after you make some money (like $100) you will lose it. 

Why am I trading the MES? 

Well, I got stoked on MNQ (mini NQ) after last night's silly drop at around 6:45pm EST. Lost some coinage so I switched to the MES since it's cheaper to buy 1 or 2 contracts with a $100. 

At this writing I'm up $65 on 2 contracts. Looking to break even today. I started with $800. Bought a few MNQ contracts and sat watching. Tightened my stops. Then they triggered me out. Bummer. 

Trading the MES is a great place to start when you're down on your luck. The MES moves slow. It's like a chill day at the beach. Things go slow and almost makes you wonder if anyone in the world is trading the MES. 

Yuppers, billions of contracts trade the MES. It's the bedrock financial dealio that drives other markets. My issue trading the MES is that the price ranges are low. Sure you can snag some comfort trading with millions of others on the MES. There's some safety there and it's a cool place to dabble in learning to trade futures. But for me, I prefer the massive price spikes on the MNQ. They tend to make and break traders. Almost always break. Seldom do traders make gains on the MNQ or the NQ without catastrophic losses. 

><b>Tip<b>
When I started trading options back in 2018 with IB, it took about a month to understand what was going on. 
Like wow, all this stuff is in my face, lots of charts to learn about and then there's changing your charts or even better. 
Deleting most of them. 


Give yourself a month to learn about your brokerage trading platform. 
Also, don't trade on your phone app. It's a bad idea and you miss the price action details that trading on your desktop app offers. 
Be smart. Don't be dumb and trade on your phone. 

><b>Writing About Trading<b>
Should you keep a trading log? Nope. It's dumb. 

Gosh, I should have sold at 2:12pm instead of holding on to that massive 3 contract trade. Duh, wish I had sold. Gosh, it's tough man and I'm trading to make some bank so I can pay some bills.

All that crap is a waste of time...

Analyzing charts where you bought or sold is like recalibrating your drive to 
Dunkin Donuts two mornings ago when the light turned yellow before red. Oh no, I should have pressed on my gas pedal 
more so I could have cruised through the light. Doesn't that seem odd to you? Or how about a big, fat waste of time? 
You can't change the past so why write about trying to change it? 

<b>My Story<b>
Me? Over the years I've done two things. 

1. I went back and traded with replay of that time period when I got destroyed. Then did it over again. Then thought about the mistakes and tried to get more respectful of trading with a super cool strategy rather than rawe expensive emotions. Think of this stuff as a business. Cut throat. Big time potential to lose all of your money fast. Like in seconds. Again, if you're reading this far, I don't mean to scare you...

But I do want you to know trading futures is high-risk. Not if you reverse-engineer how to learn to trade futures. Always start at the end of your trade. Maybe in the beginning keep your stop loss at $20. Then move it up as the price goes your way (yay). 

Or heck, if you get nervous the trade is going to turn against you (like most of them), sell it all. Like now. Or move your stop within $5 or so from the current price. Let it stop you out. See how it works in your cash account. That is great example of controlled risk. Yeehaw.

2. I started free writing about my weaknesses trading. Get down and dirty about your feelings kind of writing. Don't share it with anyone unless you think it's a good idea. Just write about your time trading. Or worrying about how you'll do trading. Or worse, worry about losing money. Not fun. I promise I'll do my best to show ways to limit your trading losses by using stops.  

<b>Uncover Your Deep Dark Secrets<b>
Figure out your weaknesses and your nasty little habits like adding too many contracts on trade in the money. 
Sure going from 1 contract to 5 ramps your gains. But your magin will crush you. Why? Because you were greedy. 

Plus you were looking for instant $333 or some crazy win that will make a difference. Even if you do add contracts 
and then sell with huge money, you'll figure out how to lose it all. Greedy traders get beaten down fast. 

Then your account blows up and goes into negative balance territory. Not cool. So get rid of greed. 
Write yourself a story about some stupid trader who was up $130 on 1 contract and then added 2 more. Then lost it all. 
By writing anything about trading, you get into the feelings you experience. Greed is a major sucky time. 


<b>This Futures Stuff is Tricky Sh!t<b>
Earning money (big trade gains) also comes with dangerous consequences. Let's say you're up $300 on your $800 account. 
Damn, great job. Can you keep it? Almost always it turns into no. You get greedy. Damn man, I'm up $300 in my cash account. 

I'm awesome. Then get in on another trade too quick and boom. You lose it all. But you talk yourself into holding. Move your 
stop. 

Pray. 

Hope. 

Ask God to get you out of a trade you're down $400 and your magin is just about to auto-liquidate you 
out of your trade. Not cool. 

When you make some money in your cash account, do one thing. Stop. Then switch over to your 
market replay or go back to your simulation account. Your sim account lets you trade real-time in practice mode. You can 
adust your balance once per hour. It's about as close to trading your cash account as you get. 


