# Now Let's Start Learning

So this site and these posts will be in real time as I trade. I don't want to overload you with tech and blah stuff that you will learn down the road. So today I started with $800 in my simulation account with Tradovate. Hey so a nice tid bit that gives you assurance Tradovate is a good brokerage. They don't have an affiliate program. Nope, no shared links all the interWebs promoting some dorky thing. That makes a huge difference knowing they may charge you a bunch for commissions, but they got your back.

Tradovate support rocks. They reply sometimes in minutes. 

At about ten minutes ago, I took a screenshot of my trading screens. This is a sim trade, not real money. On the left is the Tradovate online app. On the right is their iMac desktop app. This is the only chart I use when trading. All I use is the chart, Bulls vs. Bears, and then you know, trade. 

<b>Tradovate Set-up<b>

Go back and look at the README file. Everything I use with Tradovate is in it. I just use the 1 minute chart. Then Bulls vs. Bears. Then trade. I do have 4 standard deviations for the moving averages. But honestly, any moving average will work. I just added it from the community settings. They help you see how prices tend to try to reach the moving average lines. Then hold that price, dip a little (hook) and then pump up the volume in the last ten seconds of the minute. 

Really?

Yes, not always but more often than not. 

<b>Bar Charts vs. Candles<b>

Gosh, you people and your freaking candles. They are so dumb. I use bar charts so that I can see the granular movement of the price. Plus you get to see reversal bars. Those are everywhere. It basically means that the price closed in the upper half of the minute from where it opened. Two in a row and got yourself a possible trade. Three and you may want to buy fast. 

Candles are nice and all. But they are just too tough on the eyes after you spend time (like months and years) staring at bar charts. 

Go with bar charts. You can learn a ton watching how prices react horizontally throughout one minute. Then remember those patterns so you can trade them. That's just one way I trade. 

<b>My Trade Now<b>
It's 7:35 EST and I am up $77. On 2 contracts. Um, ya, that is like free money while I'm writing this sentence. After I took the screenshot, it bumped up to $88 in the green. Small steps up all night work well. Another easy way to trade. 

You Buy Mkt (button) 1 contract (to go up -- green, not red button) at around maybe 7p. Run a $30 stop loss. Watch it. The cool thing about overnight holds are that they're so simple. Goes up, you make money over coffee in the morning. Goes down, and you get stopped out. Hmmmm...does that sound as hard as getting up, eating something, driving to work, doing some work, check your phone 218 times, drive home, crash on your couch and zone out. 

All of us went through that. I still work while I trade. Push it hard. But I don't leave home to make money. Never. I've worked in FinTech for 10+ years. Most of it remote. But you gotta accept where you are at right now. Maybe Sucksville? Way over on all your bills. Nope, not trying to sell you anything here. Just sharing. 

Wow, my 2 contracts just popped up to $104. Screenie below:

XxXXXXXXXXXXX

So relax. Give yourself a year or two. Make it a $50 a month hobby. Get damn good. Be suspicious of everything. Because things can go wild trading futures. 100 point drop in seconds. Poof, your trade is dead. Or how about a 120 point spike up at 2pm EST when great news comes out. Boom. 

Take time to read this stuff. I am sharing it because I believe it's possible for everyone to trade futures. I am new to being green. This took a long time like 4 years. Major losses along the way. I was so broke I went a few months without being abel to pay my Tradovate $50 a month dealio. But I still watched the market via Yahoo. They have a great charting platform. You can just watch that for a while and read this stuff. 

<b>We're in This Together<b>

So part of this site is to write about me going green. Nope, not green new thing in politics. I do recycle. Also raised 3 kids with cloth diapers. My goal is 30% a day. I know I can 2X if I get good volume but I'm going to cut out those 10 contract trades and bank gains everyday. 

Believe me, I love adding contracts. Like 15, 20 if my account amount lets me. You can do some serious damage in a good way with 10 contracts and a 50 point jag. For now, focus on buying, not selling short.

<b>Short Selling<b>

Oh boy, this is a tough one. There's people who think it's bad to sell short (Sell Mkt button). When it goes down you make money. Go search online how it works. I don't care, I just care that I make money using the Sell Mkt button. Free trade. Markets will hurt some folks and a few will gain a lot. Stay tuned on that gem.

It's not smart to sell short when you start out. It's a nasty, bumpy, broken car axel trip down. Big spikes up happen all the time so your stop gets hit and you're out of your trade. Bummer dude. But there are ways to watch how sometimes the price drops 30 points. Big drops. You can catch them but go easy. 1 contract. Let it fall. Then sell fast. 

The one cool thing about prices taking fast is they also spike up. Those are great Buy Mkt trades. Let it fall hard. Then notice how it spikes up 10-20 points. Free money. That's another way to trade. Just look major drops. Then buy. But have your hand on your mouse to sell. Fast. I don't use shortkeys. I like a mouse and rumor has it likes me. It's like my 8th iMac mouse in 10 years. I tend to burn them up. 

<b>Know When to Call It<b>
It's getting late for me. I was up at 4am today. Usually everyday. I worked. Then I traded while I worked. Easy. Do it 2000 times and it's even easier. Take small time blocks for a while. Maybe two hours. Then give yourself a break. 

So I'm call it now. We had about a 10 point drop on tne MNQ in the last fifteen minutes. I am down to being up $60. 

Thanks for reading. Have a good one. 

-Me
