Had some easy success early this morning. Ran up my $300 account on the MNQ, Then I lost almost all of it. Back down to $80. Started chasing stuff and bingo, those trading fees add up. 

Then I switched to the MES and cranked up some solid gains. Like 60 points worth. I'm back up to $215. Phew. I actually switched back to the MNQ around 2:55pm. Made some nice stuff and then of course kept chasing. Good day overall. I actually still have cash in my account.

I took a bunch of days off from trading. Last Friday and yestereday too. Sometimes you need a break. Give it to yourself. This stuff will be here practically 24/7 200+ trading cycles every 24 hours (or so). 

Something I'm leaning toward doing is pecking away at daily posts. Then keep adding to the Hydrant Keys page. Remember, those are must-have items. A good snowmaker always has at least two different sizes wherever he goes on the hill. A lighter helps when you need to set a fire next to a valve to thaw it out. Flag tape too. Sometimes valves get hit (by groomers of course) and get shaky. Not good. We flag it with tape so other tough snowmaker dudes don't get their heads blown off. 

Safety first, always. Well, except when you spend almost two full weeks in the winter taking apart 6" frozen water pipe. Like 1500 feet of it. Unclip the Vycktolic coupling. Bang with hammer. Slam pipe with hammers, other pipe pieces. Slide out frozen circle of water. Put every 20 foot section of pipe back together. 

Then do it for the next 10 days nearly 12 hours a day in the ripping wind at 18 degrees. Frozen pipe with frozen standing around temperatures is a recipe for brutal strength. You earn it over time. Then it's not a big deal. Dress in layers. Like few when you're running trails all shift. 1 layer, then a nylon jacket. Baseball hat, Peltor hearing protection and bam, you're good to go.

But standing around for endless hours in those temps brings an entirely different set of layers. Tons. Like 4 under your nylon. Always wear nylon pants with side zippers on the legs. That gives you the option to unzip if you're hot. Especially when you're holding a 300 degree flame thrower attached to a gas bottle. Things tend to heat up when you're torching pipe for hours. 

That was just one frozen pipe project we had in the 1988-2005 years. Like some winters we had 4. Such a blast to go back out a few weeks later and break apart more frozen pipe. Always throw snow on the end of the pipe near the bleed (valve that controls the flow of water into a brook or hanging off the end of 15 feet cliff of rocks. What's even more fun is dragging a backhoe up the mountain in the winter to dig up frozen pipe. 

If you're reading this far, think about frozen pipe as trades you're in when the thing just does not do anything. Double, triple tops up a bit, then down. The stop never gets hit means there's some good mojo moving in your right direction. I am in with 2 contracts right now on the MES @6929.25. Almost in the money. 

<b>Buying Early<b>

This a favorite of mine. Buy 1 contract (Buy Mkt) at like around 7pm and let it ride with a $20 stop. Time overnight and some good strong buying will keep that thing creeping up all night. Not always but a lot. Perhaps move your stop up to break  even or like $20 profit. Then see what happens.

Some nights the ES is up like 50 points. NQ sometimes creeps up 175 or so at night. That's some serious gains with nearly no work. But it requires getting on the right side of the move. Count on getting stopped out. But that's okay, it's a good learning exercise. 


